So how old are you? - I'm 16.
- 16. So what is that, you're in 10th grade?
- Junior year. So 11th grade. - Have you of nanotechnology?
Have you heard of this term before?
- Yeah, I've heard of it. - What do you think of
when you think of nanotechnology?
- It kind of seems very science fiction.
- You know, you're right.
When you read about some of these technologies,
it does feel like science fiction.
But the part of nanotechnology
I wanted to talk to you about
is stuff that you probably use every day,
most of your day, all of the time.
Can you guess what aspect of nanotechnology
I'm gonna talk to you about? - My phone?
- Yeah, so modern computer chips
rely heavily on nanotechnology.
Does this look familiar to you?
Can you guess what this might be?
- I don't know.
- So this is a silicon wafer,
and they're embedded in basically almost every object
that you use, from a laptop, to a phone, to cars,
television sets, appliances.
We ended up cutting these into little squares
and those repeating patterns, each of those is a processor.
And those chips are what goes into all of these objects.
What I want to talk to you about is how we got
from where we started, and how we're able to actually fit
18 billion of these little devices
in a little one inch by one inch area.
They're called transistors. It's a switch.
Very simply, think of it as a light switch
that turns on and turns off using an electric field
by applying a voltage. - OK.
- I went through my kid's Lego bins
to build a very simple model of a transistor.
And these are wired together in circuits
so that you can do computation.
You can do logic with them.
Where nanotechnology comes into play,
the way you double the number of transistors on a chip.
Can you guess what you would have to do to this transistor?
- You make it smaller?
- You have to make it smaller. Exactly.
But here's the problem.
So about 10 to 15 years ago, the devices got so small
that if you shrunk them this gate,
that actually turns it on and off
loses its ability to control the channel.
And so what they did, was they took devices like this
into these things, we call them, FinFETs,
kind of like a fin on a fish.
So they're very thin transistors.
The width of these fins is only six nanometers. Okay?
So 6 nanometers is 25 to 30 atoms across.
And they repeat this
over the entire wafer just about perfectly.
It's just a huge feat in engineering.
But these types of devices are exactly the kind of devices
that your phones and computers either have,
or will have in the near future.
And it's a way that nanotechnology
is directly impacting you right now.
- How do you make stuff that small?
Obviously it's not handmade, so is it factories and stuff?
- Exactly.
So these are made using a technique called lithography.
You basically coat the silicon wafer with a polymer.
Then you put a mask on it
and then you shine light through it.
And the features of the mask, the size of those holes
determine the feature size in the chip.
It's not just the size of the mask that matters.
It's the wavelength of the light that's used.
We talked about nanotechnology being science fiction before,
but this is real stuff that's being produced,
that's being made, that's being used every day by people.
- In middle school, I built all of the little switches
where you turn the electricity on,
and it goes from one thing to the other.
But those are the really big, comical,
like plugging in Legos and stuff.
When we saw the picture of all of the little ones,
it's like a city, it's crazy how simple
and complex it is at the same time.
- Exactly. I couldn't put it any better. That's right.