Are you interested in science? - Yes.
- Yes, you are? - Yes. - Do you know what gravity is? - It's something that, so, right now,
we would be floating if there was no gravity, but since there's gravity we're sitting right down on these chairs.
- That's pretty good. So gravity wants to attract us to the Earth,
and the Earth to us. But the Earth is so much bigger that even though we're actually pulling the Earth
a little bit to us, you don't notice it so much. You know, the Moon pulls on the Earth a little bit.
- Mm-hmm, just like the ocean tides. - [Janna] Exactly, the Moon is such a big body
compared to anything else very nearby that it has the larger effect, pulling the water of the Earth.
But more than the Moon, think about the Sun pulling on the Earth. We orbit the whole Sun, just the way the Earth pulls on the Moon
and causes the Moon to orbit us. All of those things are acting on you and me right now. - If gravity was too strong, would we be able to get up?
- That's such a good question. No, we actually couldn't. In the Moon, gravity is weaker,
you can almost float between footsteps if you look at the astronauts on the Moon. On the Earth, it's harder, 'cause it's bigger.
If you go to a bigger, heavier planet, it gets harder and harder. But there are stars that have died
that are so dense that there's no way we could lift our arms, no way we could step or walk.
The gravity is just way too strong. Do you know how tall you are? - I'm in the fours. - In the fours?
- Maybe four three. - People think that while you're sleeping, your body has a chance to stretch out
and gravity isn't crunching you together, but when you're standing or walking or sitting,
the gravity contracts your spine ever so slightly, so that in the morning you might be a little bit taller
than in the evening. See if it works for you.
- [Woman] Wow. - So that was last night? - Yes. [Bonet screams]
- Ooh. - They say that astronauts in space, definitely their spine elongates. There were two twin astronauts,
one who stayed here on Earth and the other who went to the International Space Station. He was there for a long time, and when he came back,
he was actually taller than his twin brother. - Wow. - Yeah, and that was because gravity wasn't compressing him all the time
and he was floating freely in the International Space Station and his spine just kind of elongated.
After a while here on Earth though he'll readjust, he'll go back to the same size. Have you ever heard of how gravity was discovered?
- Mm-hmm. - Isaac Newton would ponder, how does the Earth cause things to fall?
There's a famous story that Isaac Newton was sitting under a tree and the apple fell from the tree and hit him on the head
and he had an epiphany and understood this law, this mathematical law for how that works.
I don't actually think that's a true story, though. - Yeah. - But it's a good story. So Isaac Newton realized that even if you're heavier,
you will fall at the same rate as something much lighter, that that's the same. Once you hit the ground, if you're heavier,
you'll hit the ground with much greater force, but you will hit the ground at the same time. - So, if we both dropped down from a plane,
we would both land at the same time, but you would land heavier? - Yep, so like a penny from the Empire State Building
will fall at the same rate as a bowling ball. - Oh my God. - Yeah, amazing. Wanna try it? - Yeah.
- A light object, see how light that is. - That's... - Very light?
- Yeah. And a heavy object. - Oh my God. [Janna laughs] - They look the same, but this is much heavier, right?
Okay, so try it, just try holding your arms up front, a little higher maybe, give them a chance to drop, and then drop them.
[balls thud] [Janna laughs] Did they fall at the same time? Did they hit at the same time? - So, Isaac Newton, he was also the one who realized
that that's the same force that keeps the Moon in orbit around the Earth and the Earth in orbit around the Sun,
and that's a huge leap. Here he is, looking at just things around him, and then looks at the stars
and has this really big realization, that that's actually the same force. So, what have you learned today talking about gravity?
- I've learned that the person that learned about the apple. - Newton. - He was learning about gravity
just about what he saw on this planet. I also learned that if you drop one light thing
and one heavy thing at the same height at the same time, they're both gonna drop at the same time
but one's gonna drop a little heavier than the other. - That's beautiful, I'm impressed