Do you do anything with computers or any coding?
- I like to play coding games,
and I like to go on code.org, and they have
a variety of games for different ages.
So like, I really like to do that.
For example, like the game Flappy Bird,
it's like puzzle pieces, so they would tell you
to connect something and then you would play the game
and then you could see what you connected.
- [Samy] Interesting, so it's like a graphical interface
where you can connect different pieces together.
Kinda like wire them together.
- [Linda] Yeah.
- Oh, that's pretty cool.
What do you know about computer hacking?
- I don't really know much about computer hacking actually.
- So on code.org, one of the things you've been doing
is actually building a game
or that they have a game and then you can actually
rewire some of the inputs and outputs of that.
Is that right? - Yeah.
- Okay. With computer hacking, it's actually the same thing.
Really, you have some sort of system
and you have a bunch of inputs
and you have some sort of output,
and actually you, as the designer,
you're essentially designing games and software.
You're saying, well,
I will only allow a user to really control these inputs.
Can you think of any inputs the computer might have?
- [Linda] Space bar.
- Yep, there's also things like your mouse
and there's even things like the microphone itself
is actually an input device.
It's taking something from you,
which is the sound and it's then transmitting that,
ad it's actually sending it to me.
Are there any other things that you can talk to a computer?
You can give it information.
- Camera.
- That's absolutely another input
that exists on your computer.
That's how I try to think of things
is there's just a bunch of inputs.
Often, if you're trying to break something
or hack something, you're really saying, okay,
how can I control these inputs in a way that
wasn't necessarily expected?
- What inputs would you normally use to hack?
- Typically, it's going to be something
like the keyboard, right?
I'm just going to be typing keystrokes
to be talking to some piece of software or hardware,
but other times it can be other things
like even the temperature of a computer
can actually affect how the computer operates,
and it might be advantageous to me to cool down the computer
and actually slow down the movement of electrons in
something like memory, so that if a computer shuts off,
it stores something that wasn't memory like a password
and stores it for a long enough time
that I might be able to actually
extract it through some other methods.
- How long does it take to get in?
- It just depends what you're trying to do.
In some cases, it could literally be seconds
because you already know how the system works,
and other times, it could be years.
So what have you learned about hacking?
- I think hacking is actually really interesting.
There's different languages to hack in.
I've also learned that a lot of things could be hacked
that you don't necessarily think that can be hacked.