You're a string theorist, so tell us what kind
of string theory you do, what it means
to be a string theorist.
- One of the things that's key
in the whole story of string theory
is the piece of it that talks about
quantum theories of gravity.
So I'm very excited about what happens to spacetime,
what does it even mean at the quantum level.
- Cool, so do you think a lot about extra dimensions
in your everyday life?
- Uh, yes I do.
- And so when you think about extra dimensions,
you put them together with brains and different fields
wrapping around the extra dimensions and so forth, right?
- Yes.
- You know, a lot of people, a lot of string theorists,
they care a lot about all the different ways
in which we could hide the extra dimensions.
As someone who cares about cosmology,
I wanna start asking why are the extra dimensions
small at all?
How did that happen?
Is this something you think about yourself?
- Yes, well ultimately we'd like to understand
the observable universe.
If string theory turns out to be the thing
that the universe cares about,
we'd like to know, with all of these possibilities
that are in string theory, how do we get the one
that looks like the world we live in?
- The thing I want to talk about is this paper I wrote
with Matt Johnson and Lisa Randall
where we realize there's another way
to compactify extra dimensions spontaneously, dynamically.
If you imagine starting with this big piece of paper
you couldn't wrap up everything,
but within some region of space you could make a tube.
- Okay. - Right?
And down there in the tube it looks like
your long thing that is compactified in one direction
and infinitely extending in the other direction,
so there's one less macroscopic dimension of space.
- Hmm. Okay, that's nice.
- [Sean] You think that sounds plausible to you?
- It sounds like fun.
What I would immediately ask is
where do the large dimensions come from in the first place?
Is that something you address, or you just assume
that all the dimension are large as a starting point?
- Yeah.
So we certainly assume that they're all large
as a starting point, and it's worse than that.
So in our paper we imagine you start
in de Sitter space.
You start in a universe with no matter,
no anything like that, just empty space
but with an energy that is positive
and all the dimensions are large.
- But where do they come from?
- It was always there.
- Why?
- Why not?
- Okay.
[laughing]
- Well you know, I think that this is again, this is--
- You're replacing one prejudice with a different prejudice.
- I would say that we shouldn't be prejudiced
one way or the other.
- Just a large, ten or 11 dimensions
with a cosmological constant
doesn't seem like a fundamental starting point.
It sounds like there needs to be something
to underlie that.
But it's a fun scenario.
- Yeah, so let me tell you a little bit more
about the scenario.
So you know there are black holes, good?
Right?
- I've heard of them.
- [Sean] There are black branes as well.
- Indeed.
- Why don't you explain to us what a black brane is?
- Well in some ways, it's very much like a black hole
in that you have far away from it
you have these large just flat dimensions.
As you move in, there's something in the interior.
It has, itself, higher dimensions,
and so because physicists love to joke
they thought, well it's like a membrane
but it can have many different dimensions.
Let's use P to stand in for those number of dimensions,
and so they called them P-branes.
- Yeah, I've been trying to explain this
to lower levels, and they always look at me like,
are you pulling my leg here a little bit?
Or is this the real thing that they use?
Yes, it is the real thing they use.
We study these branes in de Sitter space,
and so what we found is that there are black brane solutions
which instead of having a singularity inside
are non-singular, and stable, and compactified.
Is this a familiar thing?
I know things like this have been discussed, right?
- Yeah. Yeah.
So, a lot of the branes that are relevant for studying
things to do with anti-de Sitter spacetimes
in various dimensions actually start out
as these non-singular type brains,
and then you find in the core,
there's actually an anti-de Sitter spacetime.
- Right.
Imagine that rather than going down to a point,
it just asymptotes to some fixed radius
that continues infinitely far down there.
But then you can ask, okay what about the rest
of the universe?
You have some sphere, some two dimensions compactified,
and the balance between the cosmological constant
and the electromagnetic field keeps it
at a fixed distance.
- Right. Good, good.
- But then the other dimensions,
the transverse dimensions, don't need to be anti-de Sitter.
They can have either positive, zero,
or negative cosmological constant.
So you can basically get any sort of cosmological solution
times a compactified sphere.
- Is it that these have the lowest action
of all the things that could possibly,
all the possible solutions?
- I guess.
I mean, maybe you'd think otherwise.
Again or maybe you could change my mind,
I think that as long as it can happen
it will happen some of the time, right?
- Okay, that's fair.
- I mean it's one of the things that could happen, so
I mean it obviously,
You know, we know-- - It's quantum, baby.
- It's quantum.
[laughing]
It's a loud, it's of a loud
it's gonna happen.
- I still laugh from Keanu Reeves I'm afraid.
[laughing]
- Someone probably wrote it for him.
So it's possible that if you do have this starting point
of an empty de Sitter space
with positive cosmological constants and fields lying around
you inevitably get a multiverse.
It just happens, you know,
it's just part of quantum nucleation to different things,
and then maybe you need to explain
why we live in this universe
rather than some other one
via the anthropic principle or something like that.
So how does our kind of, you know, low-tech
old fashioned way of making new universes intersect
with the kinds of things you'd think about.
- Well, it's interesting because there's a lot
of activity going on inspired by things we learned
from working in anti-de Sitter space
where the cosmological constant has the wrong sign.
So you will find that there are a number of papers
as many of which you've probably read,
probably you've read more of them than I have,
which try then to take the different kinds of brains,
these extended solutions, and they're many different kinds
doing different things, we understand well enough now
that we can put them together in various ways.
They intersect, they dissolve inside each other,
they wrap each other.
- They overlap, they wrap around.
- They overlap, and you do them in all sorts
of different ways and show that you can construct
four dimensional universes with a cosmological constant
of your desire, depending upon how you did the construction.
- I know not everyone buys that, right?
- Not everyone buys it.
There's a big discussion in the literature right now.
- And if we put aside for the second
the concerns of our colleagues in other parts of physics,
and it's just amongst us chickens,
what do you think about the future of cosmology
and string theory, and the dynamics
of these extra dimensions?
- I think it's gonna get way more interesting
than we're currently able to grapple with right now,
and I think there are hints of it.
There could be a description of the physics
that might be our early universe
that is like that molecular description.
And then from that emerges flat spacetimes
maybe four, maybe some mechanism tells you
it's four and not something else.
I think that's where we're going.
- If the viewers wanted to know more about how spacetime
can emerge from quantum mechanics,
they could read the graphic novel you just wrote.
- Right, yes.
I wrote and drew a graphic novel called "The Dialogues:
"Conversations About the Nature of Universe."
- And I just wrote a book
called "Something Deeply Hidden"
about many worlds, quantum mechanics,
and how spacetime can emerge from it.
Plenty of reading material for the audience out there.
- Excellent.
[down-tempo electronic music]
- So that was fun.
I hope that everyone did learn something.
I know that I did.
It was very nice to see how the idea of dimensions
and space resonates in different ways
with different people, all the way up to talking
to Clifford about the forefront of modern research.
I really do think that we're not done
understanding how dimensions work.
There are three dimensions of space, why that?
Why not two?
Why not 27?
I think that we really don't yet have the data
or ideas to think about this, but we're creeping up on it.
I'm optimistic about progress in the near future.