Well one of the fun things people do with lasers,
the cat will try to grab that dot.
I'm sure what you have at home is a flashlight.
I brought a cute little one.
So the question is, do you see any difference
between what a flashlight does and what a laser does?
That's true, that laser's just a dot.
And so the other thing to notice though is that,
like if I shine it in your eyes and I'm sorry if I do!
But it seems awfully bright doesn't it?
And yet when, you know, you shine this down
and you put the laser, which one do you see easier?
So which one do you think's more powerful?
Isn't that amazing?
One of the things that lasers are great for
is that because it's a directed beam,
we can actually put that light where we want the light to go
and sometimes you maybe just want to see
something around the corner and you can't see it.
But with a laser, you can actually
and this is a smoky one so you can actually watch it go.
You see it actually bending the corner?
- Yes.
- And that's because the light will go through this glass
and, when it hits that corner, it has to bend.
And we actually send laser beams down glass fibers,
the size of your hair.
Yeah.
So this obviously is much bigger than our hair.
Right? - Yes.
- So this is just a demonstration.
If you have a laser like this, it actually
bends and comes out, I'm gonna point it to you
and you'll see it coming out the other end.
It hits these walls, it has to go around
and come out the other side.
You wanna play?
So is this the first time you've seen a laser
or have you gotten to play with lasers somewhere else?
- I don't have a cat or--
- You don't have a cat.
So you don't need a cat toy no.
Have you ever gone to a grocery store
and just scanned your objects over?
- Yes.
- Have you ever seen that maybe there's
a little bit of a red light when you do that?
- Yes.
- That's a laser.
We cut steel with them now.
We actually do surgery with lasers.
You know when some people have either scars
or birth marks that they don't want to see?
We can actually remove those with lasers now.
Never seen a laser light show?
When they light up the sky with
lasers, it's almost like fireworks.
- Well I saw a shooting star before.
- Oh you got to see a shooting star?
Well that's cool, that's nature giving you the show there.
So what do you think about lasers?
You think they're fun?
- Yes they're very cool.
I like the one where you did the green one.
- The green one.
And the next time you go to a grocery
store, take a peek at the red.