Do you know what origami is?
- Is that where you fold paper
to make different animals, like those?
- Yes, in fact it is.
Have you ever done any origami before?
- Nope.
- [Robert] Would you like to give it a try?
- Sure. - Okay, so we'll do some,
but I want to tell you a little bit about origami.
Most origami follows two, I'll call them customs,
almost like rules.
It's usually from a square
and the other is it's usually folded with no cuts.
So these guys are folded from an uncut square.
- That's awesome.
- So you ready?
- Yep. - Okay.
We're going to start with a model
that every Japanese person learns in kindergarten,
it's called a crane, traditional origami design,
it's over 400 years old.
So, people have been doing what we're about to do
for 400 years. - Wow.
- Let's fold it in half from corner to corner, unfold it
and then we'll fold it in half the other direction,
also corner to corner but we're going to lift it up
and we're going to hold the fold with both hands.
We're going to bring these corners together,
making a little pocket and then,
this is the trickiest part of this whole design,
so you're going to put your finger underneath the top layer
and we're going to try to make that layer
fold right along the edge.
Now you see how the sides kind of want to come in
as you're doing that? - Yeah.
- It's called a petal fold,
it's a part of a lot of origami designs
and it's key to the crane.
Now we're ready for the magic.
We're going to hold it in between thumb and forefinger,
reach inside,
grab the skinny point that's between the two layers,
which are the wings,
and I'm going to slide it out so it pokes out at an angle.
We'll take the two wings, we spread them out to the side
and you have made your first origami crane.
- Wow.
- Now, this is a traditional Japanese design
but there are origami designs that have been around so long
we're not entirely sure where they originated.
We're going to learn how to fold a cootie catcher.
- Okay, good.
- So we'll start with the white side up
and we're going to fold it in half from corner to corner,
in one fold and now we're going to fold all four corners
to the crossing point in the center.
We'll fold it in half like a book.
On the folded side we'll take one of the folded corners
and I'm going to fold it up through all layers.
There's a pocket in the middle.
We're going to spread the pocket
and bring all four corners together.
Where you have original corners of the square,
we're gonna just pop those out.
This is one of the most satisfying moments,
I think- - Yeah.
- because it suddenly changes shape.
- I have seen these before, my friends use these.
- Yeah,
but there's something else we can do with this model.
If we set it down and push on the middle
then pop it inside out
so that three flaps come up and one stays down
and then it's called talking crow
because here's a little crow's beak and mouth.
- Wow.
- There's thousands of other origami designs
but these are some of the first people learn
and this was, in fact,
one of the first origami designs I learned
some 50 years ago. - Wow.
- So, what do you think of that?
What do you think of origami?
- I think that the people that make them are talented.
It's hard.
Seeing the stuff that we've made here,
I'd bet that they could do rocket ships.
Just so much that you can do with them.