Do you sleep?
- I do, I try. [laughs]
- You try, we all gotta try.
You've probably heard about sleep as this kind of,
you know, it's a biological process
that happens in your brain.
It's really important for your body,
but it's a lot more complex than that.
Sleep is made up of different parts.
You know, when you think about sleep,
what do you think about?
- Resting, relaxing, really shutting down your brain,
taking some time off of a busy schedule and work day.
- But being off is not just being off.
There's lots of things that are happening.
We're gonna kind of talk
about those different pieces of sleep.
- Okay.
- So our sleep is made up of different types, okay?
The first one is called non-rapid eye movement sleep,
or non-REM, okay?
Or NREM.
And then the other one, which might not be a surprise,
is called REM.
Rapid eye movement sleep.
And those are the two main types of sleep that happen.
The way that we measure that as a sleep scientist
is that we'll actually bring people into the lab
where they can do this at home,
where we put electrodes on their scalp
while they're sleeping,
and that allows us to measure the brain activity
that's going on during the night.
- Okay.
Are you like able to tell how much sleep someone's getting
or what their sleep schedule is by REM?
- When we measure all of that, we're able to see
how much time someone's asleep,
and how many times they wake up and stuff during the night.
You know, we're also really interested
in kind of, the amount of non-REM sleep someone gets
and the amount of REM sleep that someone gets,
because each part of those types of sleep
do different things for the body.
And so it's important to get both of those.
And so within non-REM sleep,
there are three stages ranging from N-1 to N-2 to N-3.
So not particularly clever in our naming,
but that's how we know what stages they are.
And what they do is it moves
from lightest to deepest sleep, okay?
N-1, it's more kind of light, wakefulness sleep,
kind of in and out of sleeping.
Then you go into N-2,
which is where we spend 45 to 55 percent of our sleep.
And it's more this kind of light sleep,
but then we get into kind of the really restorative sleep,
and that's N-3.
And in N-3, when we look at someone's EEG wave,
we see these big slow waves,
and it's called slow wave sleep.
And so we spend about 20% of our sleep in slow wave sleep,
though it can vary on a day to day.
- Oh wow.
- Okay?
When do you think you experience the most REM?
- Well I've heard that you don't really go
into like a deeper sleep,
so I'm guessing like N-3,
or really any of the N's at all, really,
if you are on technology right before you sleep.
And also if there's too much light,
or if you're listening to music while you're asleep
or anything like that,
you're not experiencing deep sleep, right?
- You know, some of that is totally accurate,
that like when your brain's more engaged
by being on your phone or doing things that you really enjoy
or things that stress you out
or any of those types of things,
it's harder to get to sleep
and to kind of fall into that deeper levels of sleep.
Most of the REM sleep, this dreaming sleep,
happens in the second half of the night.
- Oh.
- Okay?
So we wake up a lot during the night,
and we just don't remember it.
And you'll go back down into deep sleep,
and then up again into REM,
you know, in kinda these cycles.
- Oh wow.
- Do you ever take naps?
- I do.
- Okay.
How long are the naps that you take?
- Anywhere from between one to six hours.
- One to six hours?
That's a long nap.
- It is a long nap.
- Okay.
Usually we want to keep naps, like 20 to 30 minutes.
When people drop into deep sleep,
and then they're woken up out of a nap,
most people report that they feel way worse
than they did before they took the nap,
and that's because you've been in deep sleep,
and it's this term called sleep inertia.
So what are the stages of sleep?
- So N-1 being like light sleep,
still a lot of brain activity going on.
I can imagine that happens right after you fall asleep.
"Asleep."
And then N-2 being light, moderate activity in your brain,
still sleep, but still kind of consciously aware,
and N-3 being the deepest form of sleep.