I can say that when you reached out to me
and I first learned about this program,
I immediately went to my computer
and I implemented yet another version of like zooming
into the Mandelbrot set. - Yeah.
- Just because I was so excited, you know?
So that the thing is that it took me maybe 30 minutes.
A kid at home who's like 13
and 14 who just starts playing around
with a simple computer program can make
incredibly beautiful fractals.
- Yeah for sure. - And I think that's one
of the things that's exciting about it.
- Or you don't even need computers.
Like I remember when I was a kid,
I played electric guitar and I had all these guitar pedals
with different effects and oh,
what happens if you put the output back in the input
and just run it through itself,
you're gonna start hearing this kind
of fractal sound, right?
So today we've been telling people,
fractals are things that are somehow self-similar,
they have detail at all scales.
Are there other ways you might introduce fractals
to somebody or are there other things you might say,
this is what a fractal is?
- I think you could get to the reasons why does a coastline
look like a coastline at all different scales?
It's because the forces of nature tend
to work similarly at all different scales.
And it's those forces that are doing very,
very simple things over and over and over again
that are constantly creating the sense of detail.
- I think about like the scale
and variance of different physical equations,
like navier-stokes is, you know, kind of scale
and variant, you know,
this Reynolds number that tells you how viscous things are,
but you can have the same kind of fluid behavior
at all different scales.
And that's why you get turbulence at all different scales.
- Yeah I actually actually remember the moment
when I finally figured out how
to make turbulence in computer graphics,
I was working for this company,
Maggi and Disney was working on a movie.
I think it was weird science where they wanted
to have a marble vase.
And then about three in the morning,
I was at a diner nearby and I was pouring the cream
into the coffee and I was watching it
and I started watching it swirl around.
And I realized that what was happening was really simple
that you had this line of cream and then it hits the cup and
it folds and then the folds get caught up.
And then that folds again.
And it's a really simple process of folding within folding.
And I just went to the computer and did that.
- Yeah.
- And things look like marble and looked like flame.
And they looked like clouds and they look like
you just keep using those simple techniques.
- Yeah and I think it's really cool that this kind
of fractal description of geometry
or physics is also kind of baked
into the nature of computation.
Computation is recursive kind of biased nature.
And so it's kind of a match made in heaven that we happen
to build these machines that also-
- [Ken] Right.
- You know, behave the way that nature does.
- You just have to understand recursion.
- Exactly.
- So somebody once told me in order to understand recursion,
you just have to understand recursion.
- There you go.
- And then you get it all. - Yeah.
- But I think it's this point that that point
with the coffee is important
because the forces we're operating at one scale,
they're operating at the scale of the coffee cup.
But over time they kept making details
that were smaller and smaller.
Process at one scale, plus time you get fractals.
- I think that's also,
what's so beautiful about fractals is that,
you know, if you think about sort
of the history of geometry as well,
Felix Klein was looking at geometry by saying,
well, geometry is all about in variance.
I have some group of transformations
and I look at objects that are sort of
in variant with respect to these transformations.
So if you just look at translations, okay,
what kinds of shapes remain the same under translations?
Will you get tiling?
You get wallpaper.
And if you start asking that same question,
what if I allow scaling in my transformations then boom,
you have fractal.
- Immediately, right.
- [Keenan] Come out of nowhere.
- And when everybody understands scaling.
- [Keenan] Right?
- Scaling is a simple thing yeah.
- Now you work on kind of the future of virtual reality
and augmented reality and extended reality.
But it's kind of interesting
because I think if I think
about exploring these infinite fractal landscapes
in some way,
they still feel a little bit lonely
or they feel a little bit poor
of the kind of richness that we have
in the real world.
- This is where machine learning starts coming in,
because you can start saying, okay,
this is a very, very rich virtual world,
but it's informed by, you know,
my favorite mountains that I saw in Italy once.
So you can start training these fractal worlds
on things about the real world
that have particular emotional resonance for us.
- People outside of computer graphics
and engineering and science
and so forth have also thought a lot about
and used fractals as a language
for talking about nature,
for characterizing shapes
and behaviors and so forth tissue
or friction, or all sorts of really important phenomena.
Do you think that computer graphics has kind
of dropped the ball in terms of saying, you know,
this is not something that's exciting anymore
to work on procedural descriptions
and we're, we're moving on from that?
- Well, I mean, if you look at any Hollywood movie
or you look at any of the game worlds that people
are spending all their time in
they're highly procedural, they have to be,
and they have to make use of fractal techniques
because it's basically a way to get enormous complexity
without having to explicitly store the complexity.
And because they're able
to use these relatively simple fractal techniques
to make very complex looking natural things.
- Right?
Lazy evaluation, we love being lazy in computer graphics.
- Well, it's also, it's not even possible to explore,
to store an entire world in your computer.
- Absolutely.
- You wanna be able to sort of generate it on the fly.
I'm looking forward to things getting better.
We're not there yet.
- So one of the things I guess that touches
on is this question about controllability
or the ease of, with which everybody
can create these worlds.
Not just people, not just mathematicians, not just,
you know, trained computer scientists.
One thing when I think about Ken Musgraves working
about this program, Bryce,
this one I felt like I could really use,
what do you think we still need to do
in terms of putting these kinds of tools in,
in people's hands, making it easier
for people to use procedural machine learning,
to build these kind of worlds?
- I think in that case, it came down
to the fact that Ken in particular had a mission
to make accessible tools for people
without sacrificing the power
and the richness of making beautiful things.
I mean, in a sense he was kind
of the computer graphic, Bob Ross.
You know? So- - He made a lot
of happy little trees.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Which, I mean, when you,
when you think about the techniques
of somebody like a Bob Ross they're fractal.
- Yeah. And I think this is what what's so beautiful also
about Mandelbrot's work is him saying, you know,
it's not really about these exotic examples.
Like even the Mandelbrot set or Julia sets or whatever.
Yeah they're like really
interesting mathematical curiosities,
but they get at this idea that fractals are kind
of inevitable.
And Bob Ross probably never, as far as I know,
never sat down and you know,
thought about recursive descriptions
of trees or anything like that.
But it's just something that naturally comes
to you as an artist.
- Well, I mean, you can go back to all the classic artists
da Vinci's notebooks were just full of like,
this thing looks like that thing
at completely different scales.
So he didn't have a fancy word for it,
but he completely understood it.
- Yeah it's really part of human nature
or human's connection to nature.