What year are you in?
- I'm a senior, I'm studying physics right now.
- Cool.
What do you think of when you hear
the words quantum sensing?
- I think that using some sort of quantum computing
to sense some quantum level molecules
or particles, like interactions and stuff,
maybe. - Yeah.
It is exactly using quantum phenomena
to sense and measure things
and the idea is that, if I can harness quantum phenomena
and I can push the limits that are possible,
I can get something that's ultimately more precise
and potentially more accurate
over time too. - Okay.
How is it more precise?
- We believe quantum mechanics tells us
what the true laws of physics are,
and so a quantum sensor, in that sense,
would reach the limits of what's attainable.
- It would be the top tier.
- It would be the top tier.
- What are you doing?
Like, what are you studying?
- So I study spins.
And so, spins are one of the platforms
that people have suggested is a useful platform
for building quantum technologies
and I study spins on the solid state.
And one of the platforms I work on
is nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond.
- Okay. - Which is a really nice
platform because the spins show their quantum properties,
even at room temperature.
- So, are you studying the spins of the electrons?
- So in some sense, the phenomena we're studying
essentially is nuclear magnetic resonance
or electron spin resonance
which is a very similar phenomena,
but uses the spin of the electron
rather than the spin of the nuclei.
- So you mentioned the diamonds that are used
to create the sensors. - Right.
- So how long does it take to make a sensor
and to make that diamond?
Is that created?
Do you like, put energy into it or?
- So you can implant nitrogen into a diamond
and then you bombard it with electrons
to create the vacancies and then you heat it up
and anneal it, and then you get
these nitrogen-vacancy centers in your system.
So you mentioned quantum computing earlier.
So have you heard of the idea of superposition?
- Mm-hmm, yeah.
- So that's in some ways the key to both quantum sensing,
as well as quantum computing.
It's the idea that you can take a system
and put it in a superposition of two states.
Normally we think of classically a bit
can be a zero or a one.
So switch is either on or off.
Whereas in a quantum system,
it can be in what's called a superposition.
So it can be partially on and partially off.
But one of the challenges with quantum systems is that
these superpositions are really hard to maintain
because we don't see superpositions in the world around us.
In quantum computing, you try really hard
to isolate everything so that you can maintain
this quantum property
and the fact that it's actually going to lose
its quantum properties as it interacts with the world
also makes it a great sensor
because now you're actually,
you're using that fact that it's interacting with the world
to say, wait, it's sensing something.
- Okay, so it's like using like,
the quantum computer would be kind of like the base level
and then like you take it out into the world
and see how like it differs?
- So rather than trying to build a lot of complex algorithms
and gates with it,
what you do is, you take these quantum bits
and you take them out into the world and say,
what do you see?
What are you sensitive to?
So you can use an idea called entanglement
to make an even more sensitive quantum sensor,
but it's even more fragile.
So there's always this trade-off between being super fragile
and being super sensitive
at the same time. - How does entanglement
work into it?
- So entanglement is the idea that
two particles are correlated.
They're essentially in the same quantum state,
so that you can't disturb one particle
without disturbing the second particle.
And so, if I have a large number of quantum sensors
that are entangled, then they're all going to interact
much more strongly than if I just had one of them
interact at a time.
- Okay.
- And so that gives you a boost in sensitivity
when you have an entangled- - And so, it's more precise.
- It's more precise, - If you have it entangled.
- Absolutely. - Okay.
- Is an atomic clock a quantum sensor?
- In some ways, it is
and you know, atomic clocks are remarkable devices
and being able to measure time that precisely
has really important consequences.
In fact, our old GPS system is based on the accuracy
of atomic clocks.
They're a set of satellites,
each of which has an atomic clock on board
and they send out a timestamp
and so, once it gets a signal
from three different satellites,
it can triangulate and figure out exactly where you are.
Now, if you could make those clocks even more precise,
you could actually accurately position
where you are even more accurately.
- Okay, that's really cool.
- So some ways, you know,
when atomic clocks were designed and built,
we didn't necessarily think of GPS,
but technology often works that way is that,
there are new discoveries and then someone else comes along
and says, hey, this is a great tool
for some other application.